# LPIC-1


## 103.2 (2) Process text streams using filters


### Exercices (1)


 1. Show the contents of the file  /etc/passwd
 2. Show the contents of the file /etc/os-release and /etc/issue.
 3. Show the contents of the file /etc/group page by page.
 4. Using the cat command show the contents of the file /etc/os-release numbering the lines.  

[  ]

 5. Show the first 8 lines of the file containing the user’s accounts.
 6. Show the last 12 lines of the file containing the group’s accounts.
 7. Show all the lines of the file /etc/group except the 5 last lines.  

[  ]

 8. Count the lines of the file containing the user’s accounts.
 9. Count the line, words and characters of the file containing the group’s accounts.
 10. Use the command “ps ax” to show all the processes. Then count them.
 11. Show the first 10 lines of the file /etc/passwd numbering the lines.
 12. Show the file /etc/os-release numbering the lines.   

[  ]

 13. Show the contents of the last 3  lines of the file /etc/group in octal. 
 14. Show the contexts in HEX using hexdump command of the first 10 lines of the file /etc/passwd.
 15. Locate the executable file of the command date. Issue the command “file /usr/bin/date” and then “hedump -C /usr/bin/date | head”.  

[  ]

 16. Show the contents of the file /etc/passwd ordered.
 17. Show all the lines of the file /etc/service containing the string HTTP.
 18. Show all the lines of the file /etc/service containing the strings FTP or ftp.
 19. Show only the first column of the system users file.
 20. Show the login (1), uid(3) and gid(4) information of the first 10 users.
 21. Show the first 10 characters listing the root directory (long list).  

[  ]

 22. Calculate the SHA512 sum of the file /etc/services
 23. Calculate the md5sum of the word “patata”.  


### Exercices (2)

paste
join
tr
sed
cut
sort
uniq
split


