# LPIC-1


## 104.5 104.5-Manage_file_permissions_and_ownership


### Setup

 A. Create groups
    ```
    sudo groupadd teachers
    sudo groupadd students
    ```

 B. Create users
    ```
    sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash -G users,teachers,students user1
    sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash -g users -G teachers  user2
    sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash -g users -G students  user3
    ```

### Exercices


 1. Make active the directory /tmp/lpi (create if necessary). Create inside the files file1.txt and file2.pdf. Also create the directori data.

 2. Assign in octal to the file1.txt file the permissions: read and write for the owner, read for the group and none for others.


 3. Assign in octal to the file file2.pdf the permissions: read and  write for user and groups and read for others.


 4. Assign to the data directory (in octal) the permissions: user has full control, group and other can rad, list and navigate.


 5. Assign to the data directory the permissions: full control to user and group and none for others.

 
[ ]

 6. List the current directory showing the inode numbers

 
 7. Show all the directory entry information (inode information) using the command stat for the file1.txt and data elements.

 
 8. Which information is stored in a directory entry?


[ ]
 
 9. Show the user's current umask.


 10. Set the umask for: user full access, group read and navigate access and others none. Then show it. Check it creating the file newfile1 and the directori newdir1

 
 11. Change the umask for: user full access, group and others read and navigate. Check it. 


 12. Change the ownership of the file newfile1 from the current user to another user.


 13. Change the ownership of the file newfile2 from teh current user to another user and group.


 14. Using sudo change the group of the directory newdir1 to teachers.


 15. The current user is member of the users and teachers groups. Change the group of the newdir2 dir to teachers.


[ ]

 16. Create the files program1.py and program2.py. Activate the executable permission.


 17. Using symbolic notation change the program1.py permissions deactivating the write permission for group and others.


 18. Using symbolic notation change the program2.py permissions setting to groups and others the same permissions than owner.


 19. Using symbolic notation set to newdir1 directory the permissions rwx for user, rx for group and none for others.


 20. Using symbolic notation change the newdir2 permissions deactivating wx to all (user, group and others)


[ ]

 21. Set the sticky bit to the directory newdir1.


 22. Set the permissions rwxrwxrwt to the directory newdir2.


 23. If the user does the command chmod 1766 to the newdir1 directory, which are the symbolic permissions?

 
 24. Set to the newdir1 directory the setGID permission.


 25. Set to the newdir2 directory the permissions rwxrwsr-x.


[ ]

 26. Set the setuid permission to the file program1.py.


 27. Set to the program2.py file the permissions rwsr-sr-x.


 28. Indicate one example of a system command using setuid and one using setgid.


 29. Show the files in /bin and /usr/bin with setuid permission.


 30. Show the file sin /bin and /usr/bin with setgid permission.



