# LPIC-1


## 103.7 (3) Search text files using regular expressions


### Exercices


[Grep]

 1. Search all the lines in the file /etc/passwd containing the string root.

 2. Search in the first 12 lines of the file /etc/passwd the lines starting with the word root.

 3. Search in the last 16 lines of the file /etc/passwd the lines ending with nologin. 

 4. Search in the file /etc/group for a group with the GID 42.

 5. Search in the file /etc/passwd all the groups with GID from 20 to 29.

 6. Using the echo and grep commands, validate if a DNI has an appropiate value (echo "12345688A" | grep ...).

 7. Using the echo and grep commands, validate if a date has the format dd-mm-aa.

 8. Filter the file /etc/services showing all the lines containing http or HTTP.

 9. Filter the lines of the file /etc/fstab showing al the lines without the char #.


[tr]


 10. Show the file /etc/group using one tabulation as a delimiter.

 11. Show the lines of the file /etc/passwd ending with /bin/bash in upper case.

 12. Show the last 3 lines of the file /etc/group transforming the vowels in numbers.

 13. Filter the output of the command uname -a deleting all the numbers.

 14. Filter the first 5 lines of the file /etc/passwd deleting all the vowels.

 15. Squeeze all the spaces in the output of the ls -l / command.

 16. Show the last  5 lines of the file /etc/fstab in a normalized format (using only one space or one
     tabulation as a delimiter).


[cut]

 17. List (long list) the root directory and show only the characters from 2 to 10.

 18. Show the login, uid and gid of the users accounts.

 19. List the fields from the gid to the end, of all users using the /bin/bash shell.

 20.  List the gname, gid and user-list of the last 15 groups.

 21. (*difficult*) Long list the root directory and show the fields: type/permissions, owner and name.
     It is necessary to normalize the blanks before cutting the fields.


[sort / uniq]

 22. List by gname order all the system groups.

 23. List the system groups sorted by gid in descendant order.

 24. List the users using gid as a primary order key and uid as a secondary.

 25. List the users accounts grouped by gid and sorted by login name in descendant order.

 26. List all the different gids used in the /etc/passwd. 

 27. List all the different shells used by users.


[sed]


  28. Change the /etc/passwd delimiter to --.

  29. Delete all lines in the /etc/passwd containing the word root.

  30. Change all occurrences of the string bin for the word  BIN in the /etc/passwd file.

  31. Do the command echo "935550055" and transform the output to (93) 555 00 55.

  32. Cut the login and uid of the first 10 users in the password accounts file and show it 
      in the format login(uid)


[paste]

  33.  Create the two next files and paste the contents to a new file.
```
cat <<EOF > file1.txt
IBM
INTC
SAP
VMW
EOF
```
```
cat <<EOF > file2.txt
174.99
22.99
59.37
102.92
EOF
```

  34. Paste the two previous files using the -s option.

  35. Create a file named fit1.txt containing the login and uid of the then first system users. Create a file named fit2 containing he gid, home and shell of the first then system users. Show the two files pasted.


[join]


  36. Create the files noms.txt and cognoms.txt and join them. Observe the difference.
```
1 pere
3 marta
4 borrell
5 pau
9 rosa
```
```
1 puig
2 vilada
3 mas
5 pou
9 roure
```

  37. Repeat the previous exercise doing a  left join. And then, again doing a full outer join.

  38. Create the file cognoms2.txt and join noms.txt with cognoms2.txt using the id field as key.
```
puig pedroś 1
vilada vendrell 2
mas morell 3
pou prat 5
roure ribalta 9
```

  39. Repeat the previous exercise doing a full outer join.

      *join -a1 -a2  -j1 1 -j2 3 noms.txt cognoms2.txt*







