# LPIC-1


## 108.2 System logging

### Exercices


[rsyslog]

1. Check if the service rsyslog is running.

2. Show the rsyslog configuration file.

3. List the log directory

4. Show the entries in /var/log/messages containing dnf.

5. Show all the kernel ring messages.

6. Using logger send the message “this system has done patapum” and search for the log in the system log files.

7. Using logger send a message to the cron facility  in the err priority.


[logrotate]

8. Show the logrotate service configuration.

9. Show the dnf and wtmp logrotate configuration


[systemd-journal]

10. Check if systemd-journald is active.

11. List the messages of the current boot starting for he most recents.

12. Show the boot list.

13. Show the kernel messages using journalctl and dmesg

14. Show all the messages with severity (priority) of error.

15. Show the last messages and continue showing the new ones of the service atd.

16. Using systemd-cat send a message to the critical priority.


[lpi questions]

17. Rearrange the following log entries in such a way that they represent a valid log message with the proper structure:

  a. debian-server

  b. sshd

  c. [515]:

  d. Sep 13 21:47:56

  e. sshd Server listening on 0.0.0.0 port 22


18. What rules would you add to /etc/rsyslog.conf in order to accomplish each of the following:

  a. Send all messages from the mail facility and a priority/severity of crit (and above) to /var/log/mail.crit.
  b. Send all messages from the mail facility with priorities of alert and emergency to /var/log/mail.urgent.
  c. Except for those coming from the cron and ntp facilities, send all messages — irrespective of their facility and priority — to /var/log/allmessages.
  d. With all required settings properly configured first, send all messages from the mail facility to a remote host whose IP address is 192.168.1.88 using TCP and specifying the default port.
  e. Irrespective of their facility, send all messages with the warning priority (only with the warning priority) to /var/log/warnings preventing excessive writing to the disk.



