# LPIC-1


## 105.1 Customize and use the shell environment

### Exercices


[variables]

1. Assign your name to the variable **name**, and show it.

2. Assign your age to the variable **age** and show it.

3. Enter in a subshell and show the variables **name** and **age**.  Then exit the subshell.

4. Export the variables name and age.

5. Enter in a subshell and show the variables **name** and **age**.


[aliases]

6. Create an alias (uname) for uname -a and test it.

7. Create an alias (thisyear) for the calendar of 2022 and test it.

8. Create an alias called today with date, cal and uname. test it.

9. Delete the previous aliases.


[configuration files]

10. For all system users, configure the **class** variable with the value PUE and the variable **city** with the value Barcelona.  In another session test it using sudo login user, and show the values.

11. For all system users, configure the alias **myself** (show the id and whoiam) and the alias **isday** (show the date and uptime).   In another session test it using sudo login user, and show the alias.

12. Only for your user, configure the variable **name** with your name and the **city** variable with the value “Girona”.  Start a non login shell with bash and show the variables: class, city and name.

13. Only for your user, configure the alias **processes** with the command “*ps ax | wc -l*”. Also redefine the alias **isday** showing the *cal*.  Start a non login shell with bash and list the aliases.

14. Configure to run the *date* and *uptime* commands on every user login.


[path]

15. Create the /tmp/bin directory and copy the date command inside calling it **cal**. Copy also the cal command and call it **mycal**.

16. Executa mycal using an absolute path

17. Execute mycal using a relative path.

18. Configure the PATH to use /tmp/bin with less precedence.

19. Locate with *which -a* all the **cal** commands. Which has the most precedence?. Execute it.

20. Configure the PATH to use /tmp/bin with higher precedence. 

21. Locate with which all the cal commands. Which has the most precedence?. Execute it.
